tbdex v1 blog post (#1365)
TBD54566975/developer.tbd.website: site/blog/2024-04-07-launch-of-tbdex-v1.mdx

  <meta name="twitter:description" content="The first major version of tbDEX, an open source liquidity and trust protocol, has been released" />
  <meta name="twitter:image" content="https://developer.tbd.website/assets/images/tbdex-v1-blog-header-751284f3cfab50712d1aa5c3aa3f31f4.png" />

  <link rel="apple-touch-icon" href="https://developer.tbd.website/img/tbd-fav-icon-main.png" />
</head>

import Button from '@site/src/components/Button';

![tbDEX 1.0 Now Available](/img/tbdex-v1-blog-header.png)

The first major version of tbDEX, an open source liquidity and trust protocol, has been released! 🎉 SDK implementations of the protocol are available in TypeScript/JavaScript, Kotlin, and Swift enabling integration with Web, Android, and iOS applications.

<!--truncate-->

tbDEX is architected on [Web5](/projects/web5/) infrastructure, utilizing decentralized technologies such as [Decentralized Identifiers (DIDs)](/docs/web5/learn/decentralized-identifiers) and [Verifiable Credentials (VCs)](/docs/web5/learn/verifiable-credentials) to securely validate counterparty identity and trust, as well as desired compliance with relevant laws and regulations.

> tbDEX enables wallet applications to connect liquidity seekers with providers and equips all participants with a common language for facilitating transactions.

Reviewer: A couple of personal nitpicks, I'd want to know what tbDEX does before seeing the technology it's built on. Perhaps moving this line above the previous paragraph. Along with a less technical but top level example of what it enables. e.g ( a better example than below but 🙈 )

"... With tbDEX, wallet applications and PFIs are able to seamlessly execute transactions while ensuring trust and compliance..." 😅

## 🏦 Features for PFIs
Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs) can use tbDEX to provide liquidity to any wallet application in the world who also uses tbDEX. Version 1.0 of tbDEX includes the ability to:

* Provide a static list of offered currency pairs and payment methods

* Specify the required credentials the customer must provide in order to transact

* Provide real-time quotes based on the financial transaction the customer is requesting as well as the payment methods selected

* Provide status updates on orders

* Indicate if the transaction was completed successfully or not

## 💼 Features for Wallets

Wallet applications using tbDEX act as agents for customers who are seeking liquidity. Version 1.0 of tbDEX includes the ability to:

* Obtain service offerings from PFIs to determine which meet your customers' needs

* Initiate exchanges with PFIs

> * Present verifiable credentials to PFIs on behalf on your customers

Author: ```suggestion
* Present verifiable credentials to PFIs on behalf of your customers
```

* Receive real-time quotes and place orders

* Receive status updates on orders

* Cancel an exchange

## ✅ Features for Issuers

> In a tbDEX ecosystem, verifiable credentials serve as a method for establishing trust and facilitating regulatory compliance during transactions. Issuers create and distribute these credentials. tbDEX utilizes the Web5 SDK to allow issuers to:

Author: ```suggestion
In a tbDEX ecosystem, verifiable credentials - created and distributed by Issuers - serve as a method for establishing trust and facilitating regulatory compliance during transactions. tbDEX utilizes the Web5 SDK to allow Issuers to:
```
